# Swift


***Swift*** is a general-purpose, multi-paradigm, compiled programming language developed by Apple Inc. and the open-source community. First released in 2014, Swift was developed as a replacement for Apple's earlier programming language `Objective-C`, as `Objective-C` had been largely unchanged since the early 1980s and lacked modern language features. Swift works with Apple's Cocoa and Cocoa Touch frameworks, and a key aspect of Swift's design was the ability to interoperate with the huge body of existing `Objective-C` code developed for Apple products over the previous decades. It is built with the open source LLVM compiler framework and has been included in Xcode since version 6, released in 2014. On Apple platforms,it uses the `Objective-C` runtime library, which allows `C`, `Objective-C`, `C++` and Swift code to run within one program.

Apple intended Swift to support many core concepts associated with `Objective-C`, notably dynamic dispatch, widespread late binding, extensible programming and similar features, but in a "safer" way, making it easier to catch software bugs; Swift has features addressing some common programming errors like null pointer dereferencing and provides syntactic sugar to help avoid the pyramid of doom. ``Swift`` supports the concept of protocol extensibility, an extensibility system that can be applied to types, structs and classes, which Apple promotes as a real change in programming paradigms they term "protocol-oriented programming"k(similar to traits).

Swift was introduced at Apple's **2014** Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC). It underwent an upgrade to version **1.2** during **2014** and a major upgrade to ``Swift 2`` at WWDC **2015**. Initially a proprietary language, version 2.2 was made open-source software under the Apache License **2.0** on December **3**,**2015**, for Apple's platforms and Linux..